Document installing local harbor registry and Edge on K8S in an air-gapped environment (#1957)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8-bundle/air-gapped-installation.md

#### Add local domain to k3s coredns resolution
Based on your current CoreDNS ConfigMap setup, you're leveraging a custom hosts file (/etc/coredns/NodeHosts) within CoreDNS for domain name resolution. This method allows you to add custom domain-to-IP mappings directly within CoreDNS, affecting all pods that use the cluster DNS for name resolution across the cluster.

1. Locate the NodeHosts Section
Your provided NodeHosts section may currently look like this:
```shell
NodeHosts: |
  192.168.5.251 sag-291zvl3.softwareag.com
```

2. Add Your Custom Domain
To introduce a new local domain, simply append it to the NodeHosts list. For instance, to add harbor.vm.local that resolves to 192.168.1.100, you would update it as follows:
```shell
NodeHosts: |
  192.168.5.251 sag-291zvl3.softwareag.com
  192.168.1.100 harbor.vm.local
```

3. Apply the Changes
The NodeHosts data resides directly in your CoreDNS ConfigMap YAML output. To apply your modifications, edit this ConfigMap with:
```shell
kubectl edit configmap coredns -n kube-system
```
Then, insert your changes under the NodeHosts section.

4. Wait for CoreDNS to Reload

> CoreDNS automatically reloads its configuration files, thanks to the reload directive in your Corefile (e.g., reload 15s). Consequently, CoreDNS should recognize the changes within approximately 15 seconds after saving them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CoreDNS automatically reloads its configuration files, thanks to the reload directive in your Corefile (for example, reload 15s). Consequently, CoreDNS should recognize the changes within approximately 15 seconds after saving them.
```

This guide outlines the creation of a ConfigMap named custom-environment-variables, specifically designed for the edge operator pod within Kubernetes. The ConfigMap facilitates communication with services utilizing self-signed TLS certificates by instructing the edge operator to bypass TLS certificate verification.

#### The ConfigMap Details
* API Version: v1
* Kind: ConfigMap
* Metadata:
  * Name: custom-environment-variables
  * Namespace: c8yedge
* Data:
  * OPERATOR_REGISTRY_INSECURE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY: "true"

#### Purpose
The OPERATOR_REGISTRY_INSECURE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY environment variable, set to "true", serves as a directive for the edge operator to ignore TLS verification failures. This is crucial for ensuring uninterrupted operation when interacting with operator registries or Helm repositories secured with self-signed certificates.

#### Creating the ConfigMap
To create the ConfigMap in your Kubernetes cluster, apply the following YAML definition:
```shell
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: custom-environment-variables
      namespace: c8yedge
    data:
      OPERATOR_REGISTRY_INSECURE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY: "true"
```

> You can deploy this ConfigMap by saving the above content to a file (e.g., custom-env-configmap.yaml) and running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy this ConfigMap by saving the above content to a file (for example, custom-env-configmap.yaml) and running:
```

---
weight: 35
title: Installing Edge in an air-gapped environment
layout: redirect
---

> Cumulocity IoT Edge on Kubernetes supports extended offline operations with intermittent or no internet connection. This capability enables seamless operation in environments where continuous internet access is not guaranteed. In order to achieve seamless operation of Edge in offline environments, it is essential to ensure that all required artifacts, including Helm Charts and Docker images, are readily available. This can be accomplished by hosting these artifacts in a local Harbor registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes supports extended offline operations with intermittent or no internet connection. This capability enables seamless operation in environments where continuous internet access is not guaranteed. In order to achieve seamless operation of Edge in offline environments, it is essential to ensure that all required artifacts, including Helm Charts and Docker images, are readily available. This can be accomplished by hosting these artifacts in a local Harbor registry.
```

Harbor is an open-source container image registry which can be installed and configured to host the Edge artifacts. This guide will walk you through the process of installing and configuring Harbor version 2.5, providing step-by-step instructions to help you set up the registry for Edge deployment. For more information on Harbor, refer to [Harbor 2.5 Documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/)

### Harbor Installation and Configuration
This section describes how to install and configure Harbor on Kubernetes using [Helm Chart for Harbor](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/harbor/harbor/1.9.6).

#### Prerequisites
Make sure that your target host meets the following prerequisites.
|<div style="width:140px">Item</div>|Details|
|:---|:---|

> |Hardware|CPU: 2 cores<br>RAM: 4 GB<br>CPU Architecture: x86-64 <p><p>**Info:** These are the minimum system requirements for deploying Harbor. If you are deploying Harbor in the same cluster as you intend to deploy Edge, please note that these requirements are additional to those required for Edge.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Hardware|CPU: 2 cores<br>RAM: 4 GB<br>CPU Architecture: x86-64 <p><p> {{< c8y-admon-info>}} These are the minimum system requirements for deploying Harbor. If you are deploying Harbor in the same cluster as you intend to deploy Edge, please note that these requirements are additional to those required for Edge. {{< /c8y-admon-info>}}|
```
